among the communities attacked by Hamas
on October 7th was kibuts beri the
terrorists completely destroyed the
kibuts and brutally killed over a
hundred of its residents one of the
families torn apart on that day was the
haran Shams their home in the
agricultural Community burned to the
ground and most of the family members
went missing 11 were kidnapped by Hamas
including three young children and an
elderly man it's thought they're still
being held in Gaza four members of the
family have since been found
dead Noam Harts is a friend of the
family and has been campaigning for
their release she joins me in the studio
now welcome to DW first up do you know
anything about how the family is
doing thank you for having me um we have
no further new information unfortunately
every hour and every day that goes by we
still waiting for a sign of life you're
still waiting for any certainty and
mostly waiting for them to come now back
home but as you said we know now that
four are officially murdered and seven
are officially kidnapped now an Israeli
National Security advisor said today
that there is no deal in sight for the
release of the hostages How concerned
are you about that
you know I'm a I'm a medical student I'm
not a security specialist I'm not a
diplomat of course the families and the
friends are every day concerned you you
can imagine how it feels when your best
friend or your mother or your child is a
hostage and held by Hamas yeah
so every day that goes by every every
minute and every hour we
are we are very worried and just waiting
for them and and expecting for from
everyone for all the sides the
International
Community and the Israeli government we
expect all sides to to put this at the
top of the priority and to end the
misery and the suffering and to bring
them back home now yeah um just this
weekend prime minister Netanyahu said
that releasing the hostages was his
number number two priority though how
does that make you feel as someone who
you know is is so concerned about this
entire family missing as I said I'm I'm
not
a national security specialist I'm I'm a
medicine student and I'm a this is uh Dr
shashan she's she's my dear
friend I know her for 10 years we work
together at the NGO she established
uh her life mission was to solve the
hunger problem in Africa and to help
small farmers to develop Agriculture and
to gain security she she's she's always
been an inspiration for me she's all her
family are you know just amazing people
humanitarian Aid workers peace
activists it's it's been too long it's
been too long it's almost a
month we just we just need it to end we
just need them home
now and you've been you've been bringing
that message to a lot of people over the
past days you've been incredibly strong
touring several countries and and trying
to to Rally people to to get on board
with this cause to get the hostages
released how have people responded to to
your please I would say that everyone we
met were very empathic we spent 1 hour
with President sha Michelle we met prime
minister rout we met President metsola
we met the whole EU Parliament the list
is so long we met so many people from
all parties I feel that we we had their
heart going out to us and I truly
respect their support for now now as I
said the families need actions the
family the families cannot take it
anymore they need their loved ones back
now what kind of action and and what are
you asking for specifically coming here
because there are a lot of EU citizens
among the kidnapped people in that
family yes we believe this is an
international issue as you said many of
the hostages are with foreign
nationalities and not only that um we we
know that Europe
is our Our Hope with this humanitarian
issue
so we
really expect them to to put this as a
top of top of the priority and to use
old their tool older diplomatic tool
everything everything to end it today
now as far as you're concerned do you
know that that is already happening are
there things going on behind the scenes
that maybe you were assured of that
they're doing what they can to get the
people released I wish that I would know
more details as all the families wish to
know more details but as you know how
these things work um it's very hard to
get real information and real insight
about any negotiation and anything
that's going behind the scenes but the
only thing that I can
says that we have hope and we have
expectations of them and
we I I really want to believe that
everyone that we met didn't only meet us
that day and I I really think I from the
people that we met they gave us a huge
support and I believe that they're doing
whatever they can uh under you know
things that cannot be said
um but we urge them not to forget them
these are our people these are our
families this there this is not numbers
this is real
people and you just got here to Berlin
what's what's next for you who are you
going to meet who are you hoping to be
able to speak to and convey that message
to so one delegation of the German
hostages family was already here uh on
the second week of the war
um we are now arranging a second
delegation and I'm here for uh this uh
as as long as it takes to meet with u
any diplomats or any anyone that is in a
position to help
us um
especially we first we need even the
basic stuff a sign of life and to know
that they are held in humanitarian terms
these are basic stuff that we still
don't have have any certainty about I
know it's a very comp complex situation
but I I really I really really wish for
anyone not to be in these shoes never
this is every minute every hour that
goes is terrifying
yeah I really hope that your voice is
heard thank you so much for for having
the strength to come here and and all
the best to you and and your friends and
your cause thanks thank you